I've done things a little quicker and less precise (only checked T4,5 and 6 units) as I wanted to, just to bring fixes and notes quicker for further discussion if wanted.

apolssalian changes:

Apolssalian Aristocrat Youth, T2 noble cavalry, culture fix, Changed culture from Empire to Apolssalian.
Apolssalian Noble Lancer, T4 noble cavalry, skillpoints generally increased, had stats identical to T3 version previously. Someone forgot to upgrade stats.
Apolssalian Companion, T5 noble cavalry, added shield to them: Reinforced phalanx shield. T4 and previous versions have a shield aswell. More logic Progression.
Apolssalian Honor Companion, T6 noble cavalry, added shield to them: Reinforced Southern Round Shield, shared with Imperial Gastraphetus. Progression reasons.

Further notes: In a future update I'd maybe change their spears. Their dedicated phalanx unit does not have a pike. Maybe a dedicated pikeman, with a shield and shorter spear as backup.
Ekdromos are meant to have shorter spears, as of a note on old culture traits, which is currently longer than their phalanx counterparts and a menavlion at that, not a spear.


ariorum changes:

None, no bugs.

Further Notes: No future plans for now, they are fine. Maybe strenghten their archery capabilities slightly. Enable their Fire throwers as actual unit instead of a rare garrison only unit?


aserai changes:

Aserai Camel Quannaas, T5 camel archer, Set 9 had a helmet ID in their chest armour. Whoopsie daisy I guess. Switched that to set 1's armour. 

Further notes: Would maybe increase camel lancers spearlenght or give them a medium lance. With their current spear, even most infantry can potentially hit their camel with swords
before their spear reaches the unit. Aserai are also very well armoured apparently. Some T6



battania changes:

Battanian Ríoga Fian, T6 sub noble infantry unit, switched polearm and two handed skill with each other. Wield a rhomphaia but has two handed proficiency.

Further notes: I'd slightly strenghten their regular tree's Wild bowmans archer capability. As a forester culture, they should be a slight bit ahead of other cultures.
Their hard Oatshworn is right where they belong. I'd probably weaken the sturgian infantry to be equal to them in skills.
Their Cavalry I'd like to approach somewhat similar as the Nordling Cavalry. Currently they have a really high riding skill, which the battanians probably cannot or shouldn't be
able to train well with in the enviroment in their own territories. Also their weaponry on horseback for 2 out of 3 of their cavalry units are basicly unusable for the games AI.
Way too short weapons to be used effectivly on horseback. Scarce ammo for mounted skirmishers. I'd mostly turn both their skirmishers into axe throwers, for extra damage against shields
and generally increase their athletics, so they can combat shielded infantry better and support their cultures main focus better: archery. Also due to their own lower average armour
the athletics skills might help to keep them parrieing a little better with RBM, which many people use. This would still not solve their secondary weakness: beeing outnumbered in infantry melee.
Due to low armour and lesser numbers, they still should take many hits which deal somewhat decent damage to them.



empire changes:

None for now, no bugs.

Further notes: The empire in general has the highest armour of all factions main unit trees.  The katherphracts, unlike vanilla, use a lance and a shield on top of the highest armour stats.
Their units in general are average overall in skills without any specialization. Even their specialized troops are only specialized in equipment, not skills.
I'd like to keep this as the general empire combat policy: Rely on gear not skills. All their troops should have slightly lower skills compared to other factions troops but be more resistant
thanks to higher armour values. They are highly flexible. roughly 3 out of 9 equipment set in every unit has a low T6 armour. I'd maybe decrease their max and raise their min armour in the future.
The only thing they miss is a Pikeman unit.
I'd like to maybe add the legionary the 4th weapon slot, a medium lenght spear to do half a pikemans job and not as well. They'd work against weaker cavalry but fail against most nobles.



Khuzait changes:

None, they are overpowered enogh the way they are now thanks to the renamed khans guard.

Further notes: They also have a Khuzait Xaan swordsman, T6 noble-like unit. It's a very strong infantry and very heavily armoured. They make the Khuzait even a capable sieger if they
are recruitable without any issues. They have the second highest one handed combat skills currently, only falling short to the paleician noble infantry. They also have throwables.
Maybe give the Khuzair Heavy Horse archers a shield instead of a second quiver of arrows, just like the aserai heavy horse archer. Less ample ammo and forced to take a light lancer role earlier.
Maybe increase the Khuzait Heavy Lancers armour a little. Some of them wear T1 armour, unfitting of a culture mainly built for the horse. Could throw the balance even further out of the window though.
Khuzaits have no infantry besides that seperate noble like line and the glaive darkan. A worthy weakness for their strenghts.


lyrion changes:

Lyrion Seasoned Soldier, T5 infantry, Set 1 had an unloaded helmet due to a typo, set 5 and 6 unloaded chest pieces. Replaced them with other sets chest pieces.

Further notes: The seperate ibis soldier line seems rather useless as they are now. They serve no other purpose than the Seasoned soldier and are basicly just a weaker version of them.
Less armoured cousins. As an auxilery troop which their file ID names them, they'd be suitable, but they cannot really bear face against any other infantry. 
Maybe outright delete those, change them into a more polearm tending unit or turn them into a dedicated skirmisher. If deleted, maybe switch the seasoned soldier towards skirmisher equipment.
The Lyrion, despite per old trait descriptions to be expert skirmishers, do not have a foot troops skirmisher. As per discription to be a nimble skirmishers but less armoured,
their seasoned soldiers do seem pretty high armoured. They surpass most other factions by average armour stats with their T5 variants. Don't know if that was intended. 
They do lack armour compared to other factions infantry on tier 4 and below however. Justification: Experts on par, in training lack behind?
Also they do have a seperate T5/T6 noble-like heavy cavalry like the rhodoks but less armoured. Are they intended to combat heavy cav of Khergits and Empire they border with?



nordling changes:

None for now, no bugs.

Further notes: Would change up nordlings so they favor melee combat even further, while slightly increasing their flexibiliy and change their noble troop a bit.
Their noble troop, the Einheri, is a 1 hand 240 skill, 2 hand 200 skill unit, with a 2 hander on first slots. However due to the skill levels, this unit will prioritize to battle in a 
shieldwall with his one hander or generally with his one hander, since their skill is higher. Either 1. switch their skill levels or 2. Dedicate them to one handed combat + throwable.
Also they have a T5 unit in their regular tree, with 240 two handed skill, which would just about do the same exact job with even the exact same 2 handed weapon as the noble troop.
Infantry unit is on par with secondary skills of noble T6 troops and is more than fine, that one is good. I'd strenghten their archers melee combat ability to be on par with the 
average other factions melee units, same for their skirmisher unit. Their archers should remain weaker than Battanian/vlandian dedicated infantry but beat empire infantry in terms of skills.
They should fall slightly short in terms of equipment however compared to any dedicated melee infantry. They should switch into melee role very well but not replace a infantry.
As a tradeoff they should be the weakest dedicated archers, surpassed by every other factions archers in terms of archery skill. (general aim 160, them 140, battanians and paleician 180)
Probably specialize their cavalry, to be unspecialized. Sounds weird, i know. Equalize their polearm skill levels with onehand aswell as riding with athletics. Weak unit for tournament.
20 skills in everything else only. A unit that could be used by the player to ride behind the enemy backline and dismount, to then overrun archer formations, while main infantry lines clash.
AI could still use them as mediocre cavalry with heavy armour and a medium lenght spear. Would fit their "infantry focus" a lot too in player hands.


paleician changes:

Paleician billman, T4 infantry, removed war scytche from set 2, 5 and 8 due to crashes in game -> replaced with Billhook used by the other sets.
Paleician Honorable Housecarl, T6 noble infantry, reduced riding and two handed by 20, Crossbow by 10, irrelevant skills. Increased throwing from 50 to 90. T5 version has 80 throwing, both have throwing weapons.
Paleician Housecarl, T5 noble infantry, Adjusted skill levels to make sense with the T6 changes for progression
Paleician Hobelar, T5 Cavalry, Throwing 30->60; Few sets have throwing weapons but extremly low throwing skill as T5 unit. Respected the greater Polearm and Riding skills, thus no further than 60.

Further notes: I'd slightly increase their archers archery skill in a future update. 
As of old culture notes, they have "expert longbowmen" which sounds as if they are more advanced in their archery as others are.


rebkhu (Khergit) changes:

None for now, no bugs. 

Further notes: As they are more settled than the Khuzaits they follow a less aggressive path. However their unit types have to be used even more aggressivly, especially impalers.
They are mostly reliant on mounted skirmishers, which the AI sadly isn't aiming very well with. They are near identical to the Khuzait, though do have a shielded spear infantry.
I'd maybe increase the combat prowess of their shielded spear infantry in a future update, maybe give them a longer spear and switch their crossbowmens sub weapon to the same spear.
They need more anti cav capabilities. They use the same horses as the khuzait, have ot get up close and personal with horse archers whilst they have the identical armours.
Their heavy lancer regular troops is identical to each other. I'd increase the khergits overall riding skill and armour, so they die less easily to the khuzaits, which mesui wants to stand up to.
As of now, they dissapear rather quickly in any playthrough. The khuzaits have a similar problem for auto resolved battles, though not as harsh since they have access to horse archers.
As they need to get close and personal, but their units wear the same armours as the khuzait (mostly tier 1-2, rarely T3 armours even with their T5 units) they struggle a lot 
against the khuzaits peppering them with arrows and the lyrions with decent anti cav capabilities. The empire generally has the highest armour stats and also crushes them in 
auto resolved battles on the campaign map. I'd generally add a slight to medium increase to their overall armour in a further update to see how they hold up.
Unlike the Khuzait, they have no sub-noble strong T6 infantry.



Rhodok (Royalist vlandia) changes:

Rhodok Ritter, T5 Noble? cavalry, helmet in set 8 not loaded/wrong ID, switched to copy set 2´s helmet.
Rhodok Eisenlöwe, T6 noble? cavalry, helmets in set 1 and 4 not loaded, replaced with set 3´s and set 6´s helmet.

Further notes: Their noble unit is a 2 handed flanker in heavy armour. Despite heavy armour, they die like flies to arrows, since they cannot block arrows in any way. The shield they have isn't used.
For the AI this is a disaster. I'd like to discuss possible changes to their troops further for a future update. I'd reccomand switching their noble recruit to a crossbowman (unique too!)
so Rhodoks are the only faction with a noble crossbowman. Also merging the noble troop line of knights into this tree, adding a T3 and T4 noble cavalry unit for the Rhodoks that the 
existing ones could upgrade from. This diverging of noble troops would also make (AI) Rhodoks cavalry a little scarcer and reduce their high tier cav. As it is now they recruit a lot of cavalry.
As for the higher tier noble crossbows, I'd turn them into double down as heavy infantry, equal to their own infantry or just a little worse than the nordling T5 infantry in terms of skills.
This would neither increase their felxibility, as they have both roles already represented that these noble units take, nor strenghten them too much. 
It would however stop them from weakening themselves, since the high tier arrowfodder would dissapear.


sturgia changes:

None for now. No bugs found.

Further notes: Maybe slightly weakening their infantry in the future. As they take a more balanced approach, their main trees infantry skills are still on par with nordlings, 
which are mostly if not purely infantry based. Only diffrence is the noble troop also beeing a Infantry unit for the nords.


swadia (cortanian vlandia) changes:

None for now, but there is weird skill progression in off-skills (unused besides arena) in many units.


vagir changes: 

Vagir Druzhina T6 and Vagir Bogatyr T5 noble cavalry units, reversed polearm and Two handed stats. For some reason had high polearm stats but low two handed stats, wielding an axe.
Switched both their weapons from Executioner Axe (96 range) to Heavy executioners axe (124 range).

Further notes: 
Maybe giving back the druzhinas polearm stats and switching their weapon to a Cavalry bardiche (for some reason a polearm) with 181 reach. Illogical skill progression, but logical weapon progression.
Eventually increasing vagirs archery skills in future update, as they hail from the battanians (which also should have better average archers than others too) 
and balanced sturgians, their 140 bowskill is low.


